## The test cases have been automated using Playwright and Pytest using the Page Object Model for better maintainability.
## Below are the instructions on how to install the required libraries and run the tests.

### Installation instructions
1. Download the latest Python version from https://www.python.org/downloads and install it (if not installed).
2. Download the latest version of Git from https://git-scm.com/downloads and install it (if not installed).
3. Install the Pytest plugin using pip install "pytest-playwright".
4. Install the Pytest browsers with "playwright install".

### Repository setup
1. Clone the repository from https://github.com/ivanvalchuk/ui-automation-task.git
2. "cd" to the folder "ui-automation-task".
3. The tests are located as follows:
- "./tests/test_desktop.py" contains test cases for running on Desktop.
- "./tests/test_mobile.py" contains test cases for running on Mobile.
4. Page objects can be found under the "./page_objects" folder.
5. Pytest fixtures can be checked under the "./conftest.py" folder.


### Running intstructions
- "pytest" - runs the tests on both Desktop browsers and mobile.
- "pytest -m desktop" - runs the tests on Desktop browsers (e.g. Chromium).
- "pytest -m mobile" - runs the tests on emualated mobile devices (e.g. iPhone 15).
- "pytest -m desktop --lf" / "pytest -m mobile --lf" - re-runs the previous failed tests for Desktop / Mobile.
By default, the tests are run in the 'headless' mode and on Chromium browser on Desktop and iPhone 15. In order to change to the 'headed'  mode, please change this in "./pytest.ini" by setting 'headless' to 'False'. Adding support for other browsers (Firefox, Webkit)
can be done in the "./conftest" file by adding them to the params of the corresponding fixtures, e.g. params = ['firefox', 'webkit', 'Galaxy S9'], params = ['iPhone 14', 'Pixel 7'].

### Automated test scenarios:

1. Founders 
- Hover over “About us” and go to “Leadership”.
- Check Founders' section (check if all 3 founders names are displayed).

2. Contact Form Validation
- Check that required fields trigger validation errors.
- Test invalid inputs (e.g. wrong email format) and verify correct error messages.

Candidate-Defined Scenarios:

1. Consent to use of cookies
- Click on on the "I understand" button on the cookie consent banner to accept the use of cookies.
- Check if the use of cookies can be accepted.

2.  Check if the 'Contact us' form is protected by reCAPTCHA and cannot be submitted by a bot user.
- Navigate to the "Contact us" page.
- Fill out all the required fields.
- Submit the form (check if the form can be submitted).

3. Locations
- Hover over “About us” and go to “Locations”.
- Check Primary offices' section (check if all primary offices are displayed).


### How to set up reporting
1. Install the plugin for Allure reporting using "pip install allure-pytest".
2. Install Allure via "brew install allure" for Mac or check https://allurereport.org/docs/install for other operating systems.
3. "cd" to the folder "ui-automation-task".
4. Run the command for generating the report: "allure serve report" and the report will be opened in a separate tab of the browser.
5. A generated test report can also be found under the "Actions" tab at https://github.com/ivanvalchuk/ui-automation-task 
   Click on a corresponding workflow run to see the details. 

#### ***Please not that html report can also be generated by running the "pytest --html=report.html" command.

### CI
The tests are also run on each push and pull request to the respository in GitHub, which is configured in "playwright.yml" as part of the ".github/workflows" folder. The test report is also generated there.

#### The generated html report can also be viewed by opening the "./report.html" file.
#### The screenshots of the found issues recorded in Allure Report can be found in the "./test_results" folder for reference purposes.